docs: preprocessing external images page (#17497)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/preprocessing-external-images.md

    }
  }
}
```

![Screenshot of GraphiQL with above query inserted](./foo.jpg)

We can then use gatsby-transformer-sharp to fill in the query for a fluid image here.

```graphql
query {
  allMarkdownRemark {
    nodes {
      featuredImg {
        childImageSharp {
          fluid {
            ...GatsbyImageSharpFluid
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

And finally, we can update the template for this blogpost to include this image:

```jsx
import React from "react"
import Img from "gatsby-image"
import { graphql } from "gatsby"

const template = ({ data }) => {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>{data.MarkdownRemark.frontmatter.title}</h1>
      <Img fluid={data.MarkdownRemark.featuredImg.childImageSharp.fluid} />
      <div dangerouslySetHTML={{ __html: data.MarkdownRemark.html }} />
    </div>
  )
}

export default template

export const query = graphql`
  query BlogPostQuery($slug: String) {
    MarkdownRemark(fields: { slug: { eq: $slug } }) {
      featuredImg {
        childImageSharp {
          fluid {
            ...GatsbyImageSharpFluid
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
`
```

and if you run `gatsby develop`, you'll see the remote file locally now.

> ![Screenshot of rendered blopost with featured image](./foo2.jpg)

Author: Hey @fartinmartin, so I do think this is useful, but I think to reduce the size of this PR, I think taking your content and moving it into a new PR that adds upon this page once this PR is merged in.

> ![Screenshot of rendered blopost with featured image](./foo2.jpg)

Reviewer: Ok, sounds good!

---
title: Preprocessing External Images
---

Gatsby allows powerful image processing features through using the [`Sharp`](https://github.com/lovell/sharp/) library to automatically process images to be performant and have features like lazy-loading. That said, this only works if the image is a file node in the GraphQL layer.

> That said, if you want the same ecosystem for files that are hosted online and not located in your repo, [`gatsby-source-filesystem`](/packages/gatsby-source-filesystem/) has an API called `createRemoteFileNode` to solve this.

Reviewer 2: Two times `That said,` is not that nice.

Author: Resolved. Took off the 2nd "That said"

This guide will walk you through how to use `createRemoteFileNode` process and get the same benefits of gatsby-transformer-sharp with externally sourced images.

## Setup

A usecase that this technique can be useful is if you want to create a featured image in a blogpost, but the image is a url up on the web instead of a local file. This could be hosted somewhere like Imgur, S3, or anywhere up on the internet.

Give a sample post:

```markdown
---
title: My first blogpost!
featuredImgUrl: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1560237731-890b122a9b6c
---

Hello World
```

> We can have a frontmatter field for the url of the featured image we want to pull down and use as part of the site.

Reviewer 2: Should change all `we` to `you`? Docs Style Guide suggest `you`
```suggestion
You can have a frontmatter field for the url of the featured image we want to pull down and use as part of the site.
```

Author: Done

> we can have a frontmatter field for the url of the featured image we want to pull down and use as part of the site.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can have a frontmatter field for the url of the featured image we want to pull down and use as part of the site.
```

By default, this is just a string as we haven't told Gatsby how to interpret it, but now we can add some code into `gatsby-node.js` to modify it.

## Gatsby Node

In your gatsby-node file, we can do some processing to create file nodes for the `featuredImgUrl` frontmatter field.

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
const { createRemoteFileNode } = require("gatsby-source-filesystem")

exports.onCreateNode = async ({
  node,
  actions: { createNode },
  store,
  cache,
  createNodeId,
}) => {
  // For all MarkdownRemark nodes, call createRemoteFileNode

>   if (node.internal.type === "MarkdownRemark") {

Reviewer 2: Should we include a check for the `featuredImgUrl`?

Author: yes good idea. let me go update that

Author: Done and added a createTypes call so the featuredImgUrl can be optional

    let fileNode = await createRemoteFileNode({
      url: node.frontmatter.featuredImgUrl, // string that points to the URL of the image
      parentNodeId: node.id, // id of the parent node of the fileNode we are going to create
      createNode, // helper function in gatsby-node to generate the node
      createNodeId, // helper function in gatsby-node to generate the node id
      cache, // Gatsby's cache
      store, // Gatsby's redux store
    })

    // if the file was created, attach the new node to the parent node
    if (fileNode) {
      node.featuredImg___NODE = fileNode.id
    }
  }
}
```

Going step by step through the code:

1. Create an onCreateNode function so you can watch for when `MarkdownRemark` nodes are made.

> 2. use `createRemoteFileNode` by passing in the various required fields and get a reference to it afterwards.

Reviewer 2: All Uppercase or all lowercase ... Then change `1. CREATE`

```suggestion
2. Use `createRemoteFileNode` by passing in the various required fields and get a reference to it afterwards.
```

> 3. if the node is created, attach it as a child of the original node. `___NODE` tells the graphql layer that the name before it is going to be a field on the parent node that links to another node. to do this, pass the id as the reference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. If the node is created, attach it as a child of the original node. `___NODE` tells the graphql layer that the name before it is going to be a field on the parent node that links to another node. To do this, pass the id as the reference.
```

And now since it is a file node, `gatsby-transformer-sharp` will pick it up and create a `childImageSharp` child node inside this newly created node.

## Usage in templates

Now that the images are being generated and available in GraphQL, let's use it in action.

> If you open GraphiQL and write a query on the markdown nodes, you can see a new

Reviewer 2: I miss a word here: `see a new ???` 

Maybe `node`?

Author: Done

```graphql
query {
  allMarkdownRemark {
    nodes {
      featuredImg {
        childImageSharp {
          # ...
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

![Screenshot of GraphiQL with above query inserted](images/remote-file-node-graphiql-preview.png)

> We can then use gatsby-transformer-sharp to fill in the query for a fluid image here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can then use `gatsby-transformer-sharp` to fill in the query for a fluid image here.
```

```graphql
query {
  allMarkdownRemark {
    nodes {
      featuredImg {
        childImageSharp {
          fixed(width: 600) {
            ...GatsbyImageSharpFixed
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

And finally, we can update the template for this blogpost to include this image. This template is based on the one in [Part Seven](/tutorial/part-seven/) of the Gatsby Tutorial.

```jsx
import React from "react"
import Img from "gatsby-image"
import { graphql } from "gatsby"

const template = ({ data }) => {
  return (
    <>
      <h1>{data.markdownRemark.frontmatter.title}</h1>
      <Img fixed={data.markdownRemark.featuredImg.childImageSharp.fixed} />
      <div dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{ __html: data.markdownRemark.html }} />
    </>
  )
}

export default template

export const query = graphql`
  query BlogPostQuery($slug: String) {
    markdownRemark(fields: { slug: { eq: $slug } }) {
      frontmatter {
        title
      }
      html
      featuredImg {
        childImageSharp {
          fixed(width: 600) {
            ...GatsbyImageSharpFixed
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
`
```

> and if you run `gatsby develop`, you'll see the remote file locally now.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And if you run `gatsby develop`, you'll see the remote file locally now:
```

---
title: Preprocessing External Images
---

> Gatsby allows powerful image processing features through using the [`Sharp`](https://github.com/lovell/sharp/) library to automatically process images to be performant and have features like lazy-loading. That said, this only works if the image is a file node in the GraphQL layer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Gatsby allows powerful image processing features using the [`Sharp`](https://github.com/lovell/sharp/) library to automatically process images to be performant, with features like lazy-loading. That said, this only works if the image is a `File` node in the GraphQL layer.
```

> If you want the same ecosystem for files that are hosted online and not located in your repo, [`gatsby-source-filesystem`](/packages/gatsby-source-filesystem/) has an API called `createRemoteFileNode` to solve this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want the same functionality for files that are remotely hosted online and not located in your Git repo, [`gatsby-source-filesystem`](/packages/gatsby-source-filesystem/) has an API called `createRemoteFileNode` to solve this.
```

> This guide will walk you through how to use `createRemoteFileNode` process and get the same benefits of gatsby-transformer-sharp with externally sourced images.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This guide will show you how to use the `createRemoteFileNode` process and get the same benefits of gatsby-transformer-sharp with externally sourced images.
```

## Setup

> A usecase that this technique can be useful is if you want to create a featured image in a blogpost, but the image is a url up on the web instead of a local file. This could be hosted somewhere like Imgur, S3, or anywhere up on the internet.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A use case that this technique can support is if you want to create a featured image in a blog post with an image sourced from a URL out on the web, instead of a local file. This could be hosted somewhere like Imgur, S3, or anywhere on the internet.
```

> Give a sample post:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Given a sample post:
```

```markdown
---
title: My first blogpost!
featuredImgUrl: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1560237731-890b122a9b6c
---

Hello World
```

> You can have a frontmatter field for the url of the featured image we want to pull down and use as part of the site.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can have a frontmatter field for the url of the featured image we want to pull down and use as part of the site.
```
```suggestion
You can use a custom Frontmatter field for the URL of the featured image you want to pull down and use as part of the site. 
```

> By default, this is just a string as we haven't told Gatsby how to interpret it, but now we can add some code into `gatsby-node.js` to modify it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, this is just a string as we haven't told Gatsby how to interpret it, but now we can add some code into `gatsby-node.js` to modify it.
```
```suggestion
By default, this is a string value as you haven't told Gatsby yet how to interpret it. However, you can add some code into `gatsby-node.js` to modify it.
```

## Gatsby Node

> In your gatsby-node file, we can do some processing to create file nodes for the `featuredImgUrl` frontmatter field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In your `gatsby-node` file, you can do some processing to create file nodes for the custom `featuredImgUrl` Frontmatter field.
```

  const { createTypes } = actions

  createTypes(`
    type MarkdownRemark implements Node {
      frontmatter: Frontmatter
    }

    type Frontmatter {
      title: String!
      featuredImgUrl: String
    }
  `)
}

exports.onCreateNode = async ({
  node,
  actions: { createNode },
  store,
  cache,
  createNodeId,
}) => {
  // For all MarkdownRemark nodes that have a featured image url, call createRemoteFileNode
  if (
    node.internal.type === "MarkdownRemark" &&
    node.frontmatter.featuredImgUrl !== null
  ) {
    let fileNode = await createRemoteFileNode({
      url: node.frontmatter.featuredImgUrl, // string that points to the URL of the image
      parentNodeId: node.id, // id of the parent node of the fileNode we are going to create
      createNode, // helper function in gatsby-node to generate the node
      createNodeId, // helper function in gatsby-node to generate the node id
      cache, // Gatsby's cache
      store, // Gatsby's redux store
    })

    // if the file was created, attach the new node to the parent node
    if (fileNode) {
      node.featuredImg___NODE = fileNode.id
    }
  }
}
```

Going step by step through the code:

> 1. Define some types for `MarkdownRemark` using the Schema Customization API so if `featuredImgUrl` is not in a markdown file, it will return null.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Define some types for `MarkdownRemark` using the [Schema Customization API](/docs/schema-customization/) so if `featuredImgUrl` is not in a markdown file, it will return null.
```

> 1. Define some types for `MarkdownRemark` using the [Schema Customization API](/docs/schema-customization/) so if `featuredImgUrl` is not in a markdown file, it will return null.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Define some types for `MarkdownRemark` using the [Schema Customization API](/docs/schema-customization/) so if `featuredImgUrl` is not in a Markdown file, it will return `null`.
```

> 2. Create an onCreateNode function so you can watch for when `MarkdownRemark` nodes are made.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Create an `onCreateNode` function so you can watch for when `MarkdownRemark` nodes are made.
```

> 3. Use `createRemoteFileNode` by passing in the various required fields and get a reference to it afterwards.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Use `createRemoteFileNode` by passing in the various required fields and get a reference to the file afterwards.
```

> 4. If the node is created, attach it as a child of the original node. `___NODE` tells the graphql layer that the name before it is going to be a field on the parent node that links to another node. To do this, pass the id as the reference.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. If the Node is created, attach it as a child of the original Node. `___NODE` tells the GraphQL layer that the name before it is going to be a field on the parent Node that links to another Node. To do this, pass the `id` as the reference.
```

> And now since it is a file node, `gatsby-transformer-sharp` will pick it up and create a `childImageSharp` child node inside this newly created node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
And since it is a File Node, `gatsby-transformer-sharp` will pick it up and create a `childImageSharp` child Node inside this newly created Node.
```

## Usage in templates

> Now that the images are being generated and available in GraphQL, let's use it in action.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now that the images are being generated and available in GraphQL, you can use them in action.
```

> If you open GraphiQL and write a query on the markdown nodes, you can see a new node attached to any `MarkdownRemark` node that had a featured image:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you open GraphiQL and write a query on the Markdown Nodes, you can see a new Node attached to any `MarkdownRemark` Node that had a featured image:
```

```graphql
query {
  allMarkdownRemark {
    nodes {
      featuredImg {
        childImageSharp {
          # ...
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

![Screenshot of GraphiQL with above query inserted](images/remote-file-node-graphiql-preview.png)

> We can then use `gatsby-transformer-sharp` to fill in the query for a fixed image here.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We can then use `gatsby-transformer-sharp` to fill in the query for a fixed image here.
```
```suggestion
You can then use `gatsby-transformer-sharp` to fill in the query for a fixed image here.
```

```graphql
query {
  allMarkdownRemark {
    nodes {
      featuredImg {
        childImageSharp {
          fixed(width: 600) {
            ...GatsbyImageSharpFixed
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> And finally, we can update the template for this blogpost to include this image. This template is based on the one in [Part Seven](/tutorial/part-seven/) of the Gatsby Tutorial.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And finally, we can update the template for this blogpost to include this image. This template is based on the one in [Programmatically create pages from data](/tutorial/part-seven/) of the Gatsby Tutorial.
```

> And finally, we can update the template for this blogpost to include this image. This template is based on the one in the [Programmatically create pages from data](/tutorial/part-seven/) section of the Gatsby Tutorial.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
And finally, we can update the template for this blogpost to include this image. This template is based on the one in the [Programmatically create pages from data](/tutorial/part-seven/) section of the Gatsby Tutorial.
```
```suggestion
And finally, we can update the template for this blogpost to include this image. This template is based on the one in the [Programmatically create pages from data](/tutorial/part-seven/) section of the Gatsby Tutorial.
```
```suggestion
And finally, you can update the template for this blog post to include this image. This template is based on the one in the [Programmatically create pages from data](/tutorial/part-seven/) section of the Gatsby Tutorial.
```

```jsx
import React from "react"
import Img from "gatsby-image"
import { graphql } from "gatsby"

const template = ({ data }) => {
  return (
    <>
      <h1>{data.markdownRemark.frontmatter.title}</h1>

>       <Img fixed={data.markdownRemark.featuredImg.childImageSharp.fixed} />

Reviewer 3: It would be a good opportunity to talk about sourcing alt text from Frontmatter for these images. Can that be factored into the new Node type?

Author: Yeah definitely!

Author: And done!

If you want the same functionality for files that are remotely hosted online and not located in your Git repo, [`gatsby-source-filesystem`](/packages/gatsby-source-filesystem/) has an API called `createRemoteFileNode` to solve this.

This guide will show you how to use the `createRemoteFileNode` process and get the same benefits of gatsby-transformer-sharp with externally sourced images.

## Setup

A use case that this technique can support is if you want to create a featured image in a blog post with an image sourced from a URL out on the web, instead of a local file. This could be hosted somewhere like Imgur, S3, or anywhere on the internet.

Given a sample post:

```markdown
---
title: My first blogpost!
featuredImgUrl: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1560237731-890b122a9b6c
featuredImgAlt: Mountains with a starry sky
---

Hello World
```

You can use a custom Frontmatter field for the URL of the featured image you want to pull down and use as part of the site.

By default, this is a string value as you haven't told Gatsby yet how to interpret it. However, you can add some code into `gatsby-node.js` to modify it.

## Gatsby Node

> In your `gatsby-node` file, you can do some processing to create file nodes for the custom `featuredImgUrl` Frontmatter field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your `gatsby-node.js` file, you can do some processing to create file nodes for the custom `featuredImgUrl` Frontmatter field.
```

> In your `gatsby-node.js` file, you can do some processing to create file nodes for the custom `featuredImgUrl` Frontmatter field.

Reviewer 3: This should introduce what schema customization is and why it's necessary here before the code example, otherwise it comes straight out of left field and could overwhelm the reader.

Author: Done!

  createTypes(`
    type MarkdownRemark implements Node {
      frontmatter: Frontmatter
    }

    type Frontmatter {
      title: String!
      featuredImgUrl: String
      featuredImgAlt: String
    }
  `)
}

exports.onCreateNode = async ({
  node,
  actions: { createNode },
  store,
  cache,
  createNodeId,
}) => {
  // For all MarkdownRemark nodes that have a featured image url, call createRemoteFileNode
  if (
    node.internal.type === "MarkdownRemark" &&
    node.frontmatter.featuredImgUrl !== null
  ) {
    let fileNode = await createRemoteFileNode({
      url: node.frontmatter.featuredImgUrl, // string that points to the URL of the image
      parentNodeId: node.id, // id of the parent node of the fileNode we are going to create
      createNode, // helper function in gatsby-node to generate the node
      createNodeId, // helper function in gatsby-node to generate the node id
      cache, // Gatsby's cache
      store, // Gatsby's redux store
    })

    // if the file was created, attach the new node to the parent node
    if (fileNode) {
      node.featuredImg___NODE = fileNode.id
    }
  }
}
```

Going step by step through the code:

> 1. Define some types for `MarkdownRemark` using the [Schema Customization API](/docs/schema-customization/) so if `featuredImgUrl` is not in a Markdown file, it will return `null`. As well, defining a field for alternative text, in this case `featuredImgAlt`, can improve accessibility as well as give context to the image even if it fails to load.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Define some types for `MarkdownRemark` using the [Schema Customization API](/docs/schema-customization/) so if `featuredImgUrl` is not in a Markdown file, it will return `null`. Defining a field for alternative text as `featuredImgAlt` can also improve accessibility, in addition to providing context for the image if it fails to load.
```

2. Create an `onCreateNode` function so you can watch for when `MarkdownRemark` nodes are made.
3. Use `createRemoteFileNode` by passing in the various required fields and get a reference to the file afterwards.

> 4. If the Node is created, attach it as a child of the original Node. `___NODE` tells the GraphQL layer that the name before it is going to be a field on the parent Node that links to another Node. To do this, pass the `id` as the reference.

Reviewer 3: You should add a note here about how the image is no longer part of the `frontmatter`, as I could see that tripping people up.

Author: Done!

And since it is a File Node, `gatsby-transformer-sharp` will pick it up and create a `childImageSharp` child Node inside this newly created Node.

## Usage in templates

Now that the images are being generated and available in GraphQL, you can use them in action.

If you open GraphiQL and write a query on the Markdown Nodes, you can see a new Node attached to any `MarkdownRemark` Node that had a featured image:

```graphql
query {
  allMarkdownRemark {
    nodes {
      featuredImg {
        childImageSharp {
          # ...
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

![Screenshot of GraphiQL with above query inserted](images/remote-file-node-graphiql-preview.png)

> You can then use `gatsby-transformer-sharp` to fill in the query for a fixed image here.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can then use `gatsby-transformer-sharp` to fill in the query for a fixed image here. For more information on transforming images using parameters and fragments, check out the [Gatsby Image API docs](/docs/gatsby-image/).
```

```graphql
query {
  allMarkdownRemark {
    nodes {
      featuredImg {
        childImageSharp {
          fixed(width: 600) {
            ...GatsbyImageSharpFixed
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> And finally, you can update the template for this blog post to include this image. This template is based on the one in the [Programmatically create pages from data](/tutorial/part-seven/) section of the Gatsby Tutorial.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
And finally, you can update the template for this blog post to include a featured image node. Note the alt text still comes from the post frontmatter. This template is based on the one in the [Programmatically create pages from data](/tutorial/part-seven/) section of the Gatsby Tutorial.
```

The change in query structure could definitely trip people up, so pointing that out would help with understanding it.

This guide will show you how to use the `createRemoteFileNode` process and get the same benefits of gatsby-transformer-sharp with externally sourced images.

## Setup

A use case that this technique can support is if you want to create a featured image in a blog post with an image sourced from a URL out on the web, instead of a local file. This could be hosted somewhere like Imgur, S3, or anywhere on the internet.

Given a sample post:

```markdown
---
title: My first blog post!
featuredImgUrl: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1560237731-890b122a9b6c
featuredImgAlt: Mountains with a starry sky
---

Hello World
```

You can use a custom Frontmatter field for the URL of the featured image you want to pull down and use as part of the site.

By default, this is a string value as you haven't told Gatsby yet how to interpret it. However, you can add some code into `gatsby-node.js` to modify it.

## Gatsby Node

In your `gatsby-node.js` file, you can do some processing to create file nodes for the custom `featuredImgUrl` Frontmatter field.

> As we may not want all blog posts to have a featured image, we should define some GraphQL types with the [Schema Customization API](/docs/schema-customization/). Explicitly defining these types allows you to not need to add the fields in the frontmatter to every single blog post and will return `null` when not present. Even if there are no blog posts with these fields, the type will still exist in the schema and can be used in your code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As you may not want to require all blog posts to have a featured image, you can define some GraphQL types with Gatsby's [Schema Customization API](/docs/schema-customization/) to provide flexibility and control with your queries. Explicitly defining these types allows you to return `null` when a blog post does not contain a featured image in its frontmatter data. Even if there are no blog posts with these data fields, the type will still exist in the schema and can be used in your code.
```
This should follow the Gatsby Style Guide for using "you" as the pronoun. I also tweaked it slightly for readability!

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
const { createRemoteFileNode } = require("gatsby-source-filesystem")

exports.createSchemaCustomization = ({ actions }) => {
  const { createTypes } = actions

  createTypes(`
    type MarkdownRemark implements Node {
      frontmatter: Frontmatter
    }

    type Frontmatter {
      title: String!
      featuredImgUrl: String
      featuredImgAlt: String
    }
  `)
}

exports.onCreateNode = async ({
  node,
  actions: { createNode },
  store,
  cache,
  createNodeId,
}) => {
  // For all MarkdownRemark nodes that have a featured image url, call createRemoteFileNode
  if (
    node.internal.type === "MarkdownRemark" &&
    node.frontmatter.featuredImgUrl !== null
  ) {
    let fileNode = await createRemoteFileNode({
      url: node.frontmatter.featuredImgUrl, // string that points to the URL of the image

>       parentNodeId: node.id, // id of the parent node of the fileNode we are going to create

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      parentNodeId: node.id, // id of the parent node of the fileNode you are going to create
```
